>> Brian Holt: So this probably looks
familiar to a bunch of you, right?
I think you've built this with Jen,
is that correct?
Okay, now we're gonna make it work.
So if you click on this,
mine actually works here.
So if you click 25 + 30 = 55, right?
Or you can clear it and say, 89,
delete that, divide by 2, = 4.
>> Brian Holt: So there is a bunch of
ways that you can accomplish this, right?
I showed you, we can go bind individual
event listeners on each one of these,
we can go and
do one event listener at the top level.
Many ways to build these kind of things,
and
not one of them is more
correct than the other.
>> Brian Holt: So if you're watching
this and have not done the HTML and CSS,
there's some tips on here
on how to do the CSS.
But if you're using what
you've built previously,
feel free to just use
what you built with Jen.
>> Brian Holt: So here are kind of
some guidelines of how it should work.
It should look mostly like this.
It should function like
a normal calculator.
We're not gonna do anything with decimals.
We're just gonna assume
everything's an integer today.
Don't bother with percentages.
C means clear, so if someone clicks clear,
then they should go back
to a neutral state.
Deleting is kind of an extra credit thing,
so 895 and then you delete one.
>> Brian Holt: And calculators tend
to have some weird logic around what
happens if you hit = multiple times,
I don't care about that.
You can just ignore that part as well.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, there's a bunch
of HTML and CSS tips up there, but
it took me about 80 lines
of code to write this.
We are gonna write this together, and then
I'm gonna give you a different project for
the end of the day.
But if you're writing over 200 or
250 lines for this,
you're probably overthinking it
a little bit, which is fine.
I use console.log everywhere
when I'm writing code.
That's just a persona tick of mine, but
you're welcome to debug in
whatever way you want to.
>> Brian Holt: This is kind of
an important concept in general with
programming, many small functions is
very preferable to one large function.
So with functions, in general, you want
them to do one thing and one thing well.
And if they start doing five or
ten things, you just end up with a mess,
right?
So in general, you should prefer
having many small functions.
I used eight functions
to solve the calculator.
>> Brian Holt: You'll have to
keep track of several variables.
>> Brian Holt: And how you choose
to do event listeners is up to you.
I did one event listener
on the whole thing.
>> Brian Holt: We ran into this
previously with types, but
just to go over it one more time.
If you querying numbers out of the DOM,
they come back as strings, right?
So just to kind of drive that home,
so I have 10 here, right?
And if I say,
console.log(num), right here.
>> Brian Holt: So console.log(num,
type of num), you get 10, a number, right?
Because this number
right here is a number.
And that's what the type of operator
does there, it lets you know what it is.
>> Brian Holt: And then if I say,
div.innerText = num, so
now this is the same num and
I've just assigned it to be
the innerText of this div up here,
which is this div, okay?
And if I just ask for
that number back that I just gave it,
it gives it back to me as a string, right?
So now if I say, div.interText,
type of div.InnerText,
notice this comes back in quotes, because
it's a string and its type is string.
So that's something to be careful of.
If you're trying to add numbers together,
if you add 5 and 5 and get 55,
it's cuz they're both strings, right?
It's 10, right?
We all know that, right?
We math okay?
[LAUGH]
>> Group: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: Okay, we math okay.
>> Brian Holt: You can also use parseInt,
that's another easy way to
get that coerced into a.